SWAGGER-MONITORING-SUMMARY.md, before:

# Swagger & Monitoring Implementation Summary

## Overview

This document summarizes the Swagger API documentation and monitoring/observability features that have been added to the Aircall Slack Agent service.

## 🚀 What's Been Added

### 1. Swagger/OpenAPI Documentation

#### Files Added/Modified:
- `swagger.js` - OpenAPI 3.0 specification configuration
- `ApiServer.js` - Integrated Swagger UI
- `routes/health.js` - Added Swagger documentation
- `routes/report.js` - Added Swagger documentation
- `routes/scheduler.js` - Added Swagger documentation

#### Features:
- **Interactive API Documentation**: Available at `/api-docs`
- **OpenAPI 3.0 Specification**: Modern API documentation standard
- **JWT Authentication Support**: Documented Bearer token authentication
- **Request/Response Schemas**: Complete schema documentation
- **Example Requests**: Pre-filled examples for testing
- **Endpoint Categorization**: Organized by tags (Health, Reports, Scheduler)

#### Documented Endpoints:
- `GET /health` - Health check
- `GET /status` - Service status
- `POST /report/afternoon` - Afternoon report
- `POST /report/night` - Night report
- `POST /report/custom` - Custom time range report
- `GET /report/today` - Today's report
- `GET /scheduler/status` - Scheduler status
- `POST /scheduler/start` - Start scheduler
- `POST /scheduler/stop` - Stop scheduler
- `POST /scheduler/trigger/afternoon` - Manual afternoon trigger
- `POST /scheduler/trigger/night` - Manual night trigger
- `GET /scheduler/next-runs` - Next scheduled runs
- `GET /test-connections` - Test service connections

### 2. Monitoring & Observability

#### Files Added/Modified:
- `monitoring.js` - Prometheus metrics configuration
- `ApiServer.js` - Integrated monitoring middleware
- `package.json` - Added monitoring dependencies
- `docker-compose.yml` - Updated with monitoring services using profiles
- `monitoring/prometheus.yml` - Prometheus configuration
- `monitoring/alert_rules.yml` - Alerting rules
- `monitoring/alertmanager.yml` - Alertmanager configuration
- `MONITORING-GUIDE.md` - Comprehensive monitoring guide

#### Dependencies Added:
```json
{
  "swagger-jsdoc": "^6.2.8",
  "swagger-ui-express": "^5.0.0",
  "prom-client": "^13.2.0",
  "express-prometheus-middleware": "^1.2.0"
}
```

#### Metrics Implemented:

**System Metrics (Default):**
- CPU usage
- Memory usage
- Event loop lag
- Garbage collection duration

**HTTP Request Metrics:**
- Request duration histogram
- Total request counter
- Status code distribution

**Business Logic Metrics:**
- Report generation duration and success rate
- Slack message delivery success rate
- Aircall API call success rate
- Scheduler execution metrics

#### Monitoring Stack:
- **Prometheus**: Metrics collection and alerting
- **Grafana**: Dashboards and visualization
- **Alertmanager**: Alert routing and notification
- **Node Exporter**: System metrics
- **cAdvisor**: Container metrics

### 3. Enhanced Logging & Health Checks

#### Features Added:
- Structured JSON logging with Winston
- Request logging with IP and user agent
- Error tracking with stack traces
- Performance monitoring integration
- Enhanced health check endpoints

## 📊 How to Use

### 1. Start the Service with Monitoring

```bash
# Quick start with monitoring features
./start-with-monitoring.sh

# Or manually
npm install
npm start
```

### 2. Access the Features

#### API Documentation:
```
http://localhost:3000/api-docs
```

#### Metrics Endpoint:
```
http://localhost:3000/metrics
```

#### Health Checks:
```
http://localhost:3000/health
http://localhost:3000/status
```

### 3. Start Full Monitoring Stack

```bash
# Start application with monitoring stack
docker-compose --profile monitoring up -d

# Or start only monitoring stack (if app is running separately)
docker-compose --profile monitoring up -d
```

Access monitoring tools:
- Prometheus: http://localhost:9090
- Grafana: http://localhost:3001 (admin/admin)
- Alertmanager: http://localhost:9093

## 🔧 Configuration

### Environment Variables

No new environment variables are required. The existing configuration works with the new features.

### Monitoring Configuration

The monitoring stack is pre-configured with:
- Prometheus scraping every 15 seconds
- Alerting rules for common issues
- Grafana dashboards (to be configured)
- Alertmanager webhook notifications

## 📈 Key Metrics to Monitor

### Performance Metrics:
- Response time (target: < 2s 95th percentile)
- Error rate (target: < 1%)
- Throughput (requests/second)

### Business Metrics:
- Report generation success rate
- Slack message delivery rate
- Aircall API call success rate
- Scheduler execution status

### System Metrics:
- Memory usage
- CPU usage
- Event loop lag
- Garbage collection frequency

## 🚨 Alerting

### Pre-configured Alerts:
- Service down (critical)
- High error rate (warning)
- High response time (warning)
- Report generation failures (warning)
- Slack message failures (warning)
- Aircall API failures (warning)
- High memory/CPU usage (warning)

## 📚 Documentation

### Guides Created:
- `MONITORING-GUIDE.md` - Comprehensive monitoring setup and usage
- `SWAGGER-MONITORING-SUMMARY.md` - This summary document
- Updated `README.md` - Added monitoring and API documentation sections

## 🔒 Security Considerations

### API Documentation:
- JWT authentication documented
- No sensitive data exposed in examples
- Rate limiting information included

### Monitoring:
- Metrics endpoint should be protected in production
- Consider authentication for metrics access
- Network-level access controls recommended

## 🚀 Next Steps

### Immediate:
1. Test the API documentation at `/api-docs`
2. Verify metrics are being collected at `/metrics`
3. Set up Grafana dashboards
4. Configure alert notifications

### Future Enhancements:
1. Add distributed tracing (Jaeger/Zipkin)
2. Implement APM integration (New Relic/DataDog)
3. Add custom business metrics
4. Create automated dashboard provisioning
5. Add log aggregation (ELK stack)

## 🐛 Troubleshooting

### Common Issues:

1. **Swagger UI not loading**
   - Check if service is running on port 3000
   - Verify all dependencies are installed

2. **Metrics not appearing**
   - Check `/metrics` endpoint directly
   - Verify Prometheus configuration
   - Check for CORS issues

3. **Monitoring stack not starting**
   - Ensure Docker and Docker Compose are installed
   - Check port availability (3000, 9090, 3001, 9093)
   - Verify configuration files exist

### Debug Commands:
```bash
# Check if service is running
curl http://localhost:3000/health

# Check metrics endpoint
curl http://localhost:3000/metrics

# Check API documentation
curl http://localhost:3000/api-docs

# View logs
tail -f logs/combined.log
```

## 📝 Summary

The Aircall Slack Agent service now includes:

✅ **Complete API Documentation** with Swagger/OpenAPI 3.0
✅ **Comprehensive Monitoring** with Prometheus metrics
✅ **Structured Logging** with Winston
✅ **Health Checks** and status endpoints
✅ **Performance Monitoring** with custom metrics
✅ **Alerting System** with Prometheus and Alertmanager
✅ **Monitoring Stack** with Docker Compose setup
✅ **Documentation** and guides for all features

The service is now production-ready with enterprise-grade monitoring and observability features!

Commit message:

refactor: Remove MongoDB container, use MongoDB Atlas for development
- Remove MongoDB container from docker-compose.yml
- Update environment variables to use MONGODB_URI from Atlas
- Update documentation to include MongoDB Atlas setup instructions
- Update scripts to mention MongoDB Atlas requirement
- Remove mongodb_data volume from Docker Compose
- Update project structure documentation

This change simplifies the development setup by using MongoDB Atlas
instead of running a local MongoDB container, making it easier to
deploy and manage the database connection.

SWAGGER-MONITORING-SUMMARY.md, after:

# Swagger & Monitoring Implementation Summary

## Overview

This document summarizes the Swagger API documentation and monitoring/observability features that have been added to the Aircall Slack Agent service.

## 🚀 What's Been Added

### 1. Swagger/OpenAPI Documentation

#### Files Added/Modified:
- `swagger.js` - OpenAPI 3.0 specification configuration
- `ApiServer.js` - Integrated Swagger UI
- `routes/health.js` - Added Swagger documentation
- `routes/report.js` - Added Swagger documentation
- `routes/scheduler.js` - Added Swagger documentation

#### Features:
- **Interactive API Documentation**: Available at `/api-docs`
- **OpenAPI 3.0 Specification**: Modern API documentation standard
- **JWT Authentication Support**: Documented Bearer token authentication
- **Request/Response Schemas**: Complete schema documentation
- **Example Requests**: Pre-filled examples for testing
- **Endpoint Categorization**: Organized by tags (Health, Reports, Scheduler)

#### Documented Endpoints:
- `GET /health` - Health check
- `GET /status` - Service status
- `POST /report/afternoon` - Afternoon report
- `POST /report/night` - Night report
- `POST /report/custom` - Custom time range report
- `GET /report/today` - Today's report
- `GET /scheduler/status` - Scheduler status
- `POST /scheduler/start` - Start scheduler
- `POST /scheduler/stop` - Stop scheduler
- `POST /scheduler/trigger/afternoon` - Manual afternoon trigger
- `POST /scheduler/trigger/night` - Manual night trigger
- `GET /scheduler/next-runs` - Next scheduled runs
- `GET /test-connections` - Test service connections

### 2. Monitoring & Observability

#### Files Added/Modified:
- `monitoring.js` - Prometheus metrics configuration
- `ApiServer.js` - Integrated monitoring middleware
- `package.json` - Added monitoring dependencies
- `docker-compose.yml` - Updated with monitoring services using profiles
- `monitoring/prometheus.yml` - Prometheus configuration
- `monitoring/alert_rules.yml` - Alerting rules
- `monitoring/alertmanager.yml` - Alertmanager configuration
- `MONITORING-GUIDE.md` - Comprehensive monitoring guide

#### Dependencies Added:
```json
{
  "swagger-jsdoc": "^6.2.8",
  "swagger-ui-express": "^5.0.0",
  "prom-client": "^13.2.0",
  "express-prometheus-middleware": "^1.2.0"
}
```

#### Metrics Implemented:

**System Metrics (Default):**
- CPU usage
- Memory usage
- Event loop lag
- Garbage collection duration

**HTTP Request Metrics:**
- Request duration histogram
- Total request counter
- Status code distribution

**Business Logic Metrics:**
- Report generation duration and success rate
- Slack message delivery success rate
- Aircall API call success rate
- Scheduler execution metrics

#### Monitoring Stack:
- **Prometheus**: Metrics collection and alerting
- **Grafana**: Dashboards and visualization
- **Alertmanager**: Alert routing and notification
- **Node Exporter**: System metrics
- **cAdvisor**: Container metrics

### 3. Enhanced Logging & Health Checks

#### Features Added:
- Structured JSON logging with Winston
- Request logging with IP and user agent
- Error tracking with stack traces
- Performance monitoring integration
- Enhanced health check endpoints

## 📊 How to Use

### 1. Start the Service with Monitoring

```bash
# Quick start with monitoring features
./start-with-monitoring.sh

# Or manually
npm install
npm start
```

### 2. Access the Features

#### API Documentation:
```
http://localhost:3000/api-docs
```

#### Metrics Endpoint:
```
http://localhost:3000/metrics
```

#### Health Checks:
```
http://localhost:3000/health
http://localhost:3000/status
```

### 3. Start Full Monitoring Stack

```bash
# Start application with monitoring stack
docker-compose --profile monitoring up -d

# Or start only monitoring stack (if app is running separately)
docker-compose --profile monitoring up -d
```

**Note:** The application requires a MongoDB Atlas connection string in the `MONGODB_URI` environment variable.

Access monitoring tools:
- Prometheus: http://localhost:9090
- Grafana: http://localhost:3001 (admin/admin)
- Alertmanager: http://localhost:9093

## 🔧 Configuration

### Environment Variables

The service requires a MongoDB Atlas connection string in the `MONGODB_URI` environment variable. No local MongoDB installation is needed.

Example:
```env
MONGODB_URI=mongodb+srv://username:password@cluster.mongodb.net/aircall-slack-agent?retryWrites=true&w=majority
```

### Monitoring Configuration

The monitoring stack is pre-configured with:
- Prometheus scraping every 15 seconds
- Alerting rules for common issues
- Grafana dashboards (to be configured)
- Alertmanager webhook notifications

## 📈 Key Metrics to Monitor

### Performance Metrics:
- Response time (target: < 2s 95th percentile)
- Error rate (target: < 1%)
- Throughput (requests/second)

### Business Metrics:
- Report generation success rate
- Slack message delivery rate
- Aircall API call success rate
- Scheduler execution status

### System Metrics:
- Memory usage
- CPU usage
- Event loop lag
- Garbage collection frequency

## 🚨 Alerting

### Pre-configured Alerts:
- Service down (critical)
- High error rate (warning)
- High response time (warning)
- Report generation failures (warning)
- Slack message failures (warning)
- Aircall API failures (warning)
- High memory/CPU usage (warning)

## 📚 Documentation

### Guides Created:
- `MONITORING-GUIDE.md` - Comprehensive monitoring setup and usage
- `SWAGGER-MONITORING-SUMMARY.md` - This summary document
- Updated `README.md` - Added monitoring and API documentation sections

## 🔒 Security Considerations

### API Documentation:
- JWT authentication documented
- No sensitive data exposed in examples
- Rate limiting information included

### Monitoring:
- Metrics endpoint should be protected in production
- Consider authentication for metrics access
- Network-level access controls recommended

## 🚀 Next Steps

### Immediate:
1. Test the API documentation at `/api-docs`
2. Verify metrics are being collected at `/metrics`
3. Set up Grafana dashboards
4. Configure alert notifications

### Future Enhancements:
1. Add distributed tracing (Jaeger/Zipkin)
2. Implement APM integration (New Relic/DataDog)
3. Add custom business metrics
4. Create automated dashboard provisioning
5. Add log aggregation (ELK stack)

## 🐛 Troubleshooting

### Common Issues:

1. **Swagger UI not loading**
   - Check if service is running on port 3000
   - Verify all dependencies are installed

2. **Metrics not appearing**
   - Check `/metrics` endpoint directly
   - Verify Prometheus configuration
   - Check for CORS issues

3. **Monitoring stack not starting**
   - Ensure Docker and Docker Compose are installed
   - Check port availability (3000, 9090, 3001, 9093)
   - Verify configuration files exist

### Debug Commands:
```bash
# Check if service is running
curl http://localhost:3000/health

# Check metrics endpoint
curl http://localhost:3000/metrics

# Check API documentation
curl http://localhost:3000/api-docs

# View logs
tail -f logs/combined.log
```

## 📝 Summary

The Aircall Slack Agent service now includes:

✅ **Complete API Documentation** with Swagger/OpenAPI 3.0
✅ **Comprehensive Monitoring** with Prometheus metrics
✅ **Structured Logging** with Winston
✅ **Health Checks** and status endpoints
✅ **Performance Monitoring** with custom metrics
✅ **Alerting System** with Prometheus and Alertmanager
✅ **Monitoring Stack** with Docker Compose setup
✅ **Documentation** and guides for all features

The service is now production-ready with enterprise-grade monitoring and observability features!
